{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14200\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 (*****This code was used to analyze the data in Figure 3d. It has been uploaded as a.txt file to enhance \\\
readability on GitHub. To run the code in mathematica, copy and paste \\\
the text into a new mathematica notebook (.nb file). *****)\
\
(*****This system of ODEs predicts the distribution of editing \\\
outcomes at the peCHYRON locus after 67 days of continuous \\\
editing,assuming editing efficiencies don't diminish over rounds of editing. eta1 \\\
= A->B editing efficiency (%/day). eta2 = B->A editing efficiency \\\
(%/day). eta1 and eta2 were calculated with the \\\
editing_efficiency_solver_Fig3c.py script. Xwt=fraction of loci that \\\
are viable for editing, but haven't been edited yet. The initial \\\
value for Xwt is assumed to equal the maximum % edited loci observed \\\
throughout the 67-day timecourse (the percent of edited loci plateaus \\\
at 82.4%, so we assume only 82.4% of loci were viable to start with). \\\
X1=fraction of reads with 1 edit. X2=fraction of reads with 2 edits, \\\
and so forth. *****)\
\
system = \{\
   Xviable'[t] == -eta1*Xviable[t],\
   X1'[t] == eta1*Xviable[t] - eta2*X1[t],\
   X2'[t] == eta2*X1[t] - eta1*X2[t],\
   Xthree'[t] == eta1*X2[t] - eta2*Xthree[t],\
   X4'[t] == eta2*Xthree[t] - eta1*X4[t],\
   X5'[t] == eta1*X4[t] - eta2*X5[t],\
   X6'[t] == eta2*X5[t] - eta1*X6[t],\
   Xtotal[t] == Xviable0 - Xviable[t]\};\
\
initials = \{Xviable[0] == 0.824, X1[0] == 0, X2[0] == 0, \
   Xthree[0] == 0, X4[0] == 0, X5[0] == 0, X6[0] == 0\};\
fullsystem = Join[system, initials];\
\
parameters = \{eta1 -> 0.08063, eta2 -> 0.00904, Xviable0 -> 0.824\};\
solution = \
  NDSolve[\
   fullsystem /. parameters, \{Xviable[t], X1[t], X2[t], Xthree[t], \
    X4[t], X5[t], X6[t], Xtotal[t]\}, \{t, 0, 200\}];\
\
Xviable[t] /. solution /. t -> 67\
X1[t] /. solution /. t -> 67\
X2[t] /. solution /. t -> 67\
Xthree[t] /. solution /. t -> 67\
X4[t] /. solution /. t -> 67\
X5[t] /. solution /. t -> 67\
X6[t] /. solution /. t -> 67\
\
Plot[\{X1[t] /. solution, X2[t] /. solution, Xthree[t] /. solution, \
  X4[t] /. solution, X5[t] /. solution, X6[t] /. solution, \
  Xtotal[t] /. solution\}, \{t, 0, 67\}, PlotRange -> \{0, 1\}, \
 PlotStyle -> \{\{Red, Thick\}, \{Orange, Thick\}, \{Purple, Thick\}, \{Blue, \
    Thick\}, \{Black, Thick\}, \{Green, Thick\}, \{Gray, Thick\}, \{Cyan, \
    Thick\}\}, AxesLabel -> \{"Time (days)", "% of targets"\}, \
 PlotLegends -> "Expressions"]}